# SchoolConnect

SchoolConnect is a social network platform designed specifically for our school community. It provides a platform for students, teachers, and staff members to connect, communicate, and share information within the school environment.

# Features

- User Registration and Authentication: Users can create an account and log in to the SchoolConnect platform.
- Profile Management: Users can manage their profiles, including updating personal information and profile pictures.
- News Feed: Users can view and post updates, photos, and announcements on the news feed.
- Friends and Connections: Users can connect with other users, view their profiles, and send friend requests.
- Groups and Discussions: Users can create and join groups, participate in discussions, and share resources.
- Events and Calendar: Users can view and RSVP to school events and manage their personal calendars.
- Notifications: Users receive notifications for friend requests, messages, and other activities on the platform.

# Technologies Used

- Frontend: The frontend of SchoolConnect is built using TypeScript and JavaScript, and utilizes modern web development technologies such as Next js with Typescript.
- API: An API to send data through a JSON called data.json, created by a Python code that collects information and sends it to register emails and usernames in a database.

- Backend: The backend of SchoolConnect is implemented using Node js with Typescript, it uses the created API.

- Database: SchoolConnect does not require a traditional database as it uses the Mongodb

# Getting Started

To get started with SchoolConnect, follow these steps:

1- Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/SchoolConnect.git
```

2- Set up the frontend:

- Navigate to the frontend directory.

- Install the dependencies using a package manager like npm or yarn:

```bash
npm install
```

- Start the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

3- Set up the backend API:

- Navigate to the API directory.

- Run the Python script to generate the data.json file:

```bash
python main.py
```

This script will use Python to generate a data.json file containing the necessary information for the frontend. You can modify the script (main.py) to populate the data.json file with data specific to your school.

4- Access SchoolConnect:

- Open your web browser and visit http://localhost:3000 to access the SchoolConnect frontend.

- The frontend will read the information from the data.json file generated by the backend script.

# Contributing

Contributions to SchoolConnect are welcome! If you would like to contribute, please follow me in github!

# License

SchoolConnect is released under the MIT License.
